Note: this repository is forked from https://github.com/jessesquires/JSQMessagesViewController in order to use the messaging feature, but main purpose is for an artificial intelligence chatbot communicating with the backend server from this repository: https://github.com/anthonyemberley/ACETheBrainAPI

## Purpose
ACE The Brain is a mobile application aimed at helping diagnose concussions through a passive application.  Most concussion tests are very active in nature and typically conducted by an athletic trainer or an online test. ACE The Brain is a artificially intelligent chat bot that communicates with the user on a daily basis and builds a model for how they typically communicate.  If the system notices major differences in communication style aligned with those who exhibit concussions, it notifies the athlete's athletic trainer.  The reason we created this system is for athletes that avoid athletic trainers when sustaining head injuries for fear of losing playing time.

## Technology
Currently, the system will analyze the length of message, time taken to write the message, number of pauses taken while writing the message, and the number of errors made by the user while typing the text message. Each parameter is calculated differently: length of message is measured in number of characters, time taken to write message counts the seconds between when the user first begins typing and when they press the send button, number of pauses is calculated by counting the number of times the user took more than two seconds in between typing consecutive characters and finally, number of errors is measured by the number of times the user pressed the delete key while composing the message.  
Each of these numerical values is packaged into a data point for each text message that is sent by the user.  These data points are then stored by our database and each time a new message is received, the system runs an algorithm to determine how similar the most recently received text message is to the model. If the text varies from the norm enough, the user’s athletic trainer or physician is contacted to check up on the user for a possible concussion.
The current method for determining if the text message exhibits abnormal behavior is by way of an Anomaly Detection Algorithm.  More specifically, the system implements a variation on the Local Outlier Factor Algorithm.  This part of the invention is not novel but we plan to extend it in the future. Other uses for this type of algorithm include credit card fraud, authentication spoofing and many more.  The basic implementation of the algorithm will transform text message data points into into an N-dimensional space where N is the number of parameters (In our current model this is 4). Then it will have all previous text message features “plotted”.  It will then “plot” the new point and sum the distances to the nearest neighbors of the point.  Higher values means the message may be an outlier and if the value of distances is above a predetermined threshold, it is deemed abnormal.  The threshold is determined based on the deviation in the previous text messages; the larger the deviation, the higher the threshold. The reason this algorithm is powerful for our application is it allows for many high density regions.  For example, it may be highly correlated when a user types longer messages they have more errors, and shorter messages have less pauses.  Then if we get a shorter text with lots of errors and pauses, it would be deemed an anomaly.  The graphic below demonstrates this in 2-dimensions:
